[DOCSP-24541] TLS page (#40)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/fundamentals/connection/tls.txt

.. _csharp-tls:

==========================
Enable TLS on a Connection
==========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to connect to MongoDB instances with the

> `TLS/SSL <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security>`__

Author: Wow. You'd think I would know that, given how many times I used it on the rest of this page.

security protocol using the underlying TLS/SSL support in the {+framework+}. To
configure your connection to use TLS/SSL, enable the TLS/SSL settings in either
the :ref:`connection string <csharp-connection-uri>` or 
:ref:`MongoClientSettings <csharp-mongo-client-settings>`.

.. _csharp-tls-enable:

Enable TLS
----------

You can enable TLS for the connection to your MongoDB instance
in two different ways: using a property on a ``MongoClientSettings`` object or
through a parameter in your connection string.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoClientSettings
      :tabid: mongoclientsettings

      To enable TLS with a ``MongoClientSettings`` object, set the ``UseTls`` property
      to ``true``:

      .. code-block:: csharp

         var settings = new MongoClientSettings() { UseTls = true };
         var client = new MongoClient(settings);

   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connectionstring

      To enable TLS with a connection string, assign the 
      parameter ``tls`` a value of ``true`` in the connection string passed to the
      ``MongoClient`` constructor:

      .. code-block:: csharp

>          var mongoClient = new MongoClient("mongodb://user1:password1@sample.host:27017?tls=true");

Author: Yeah, that occurred to me as I was reviewing your Enterprise Auth page. We'll also need to clean that up on several other pages I've done before review.

      },
      UseTls = true
   };

.. note:: 

   When loading a certificate with a password, the certificate object must contain a private 
   key. If it doesn't, your certificate will not be passed to the server.

Allow Insecure TLS
------------------

When TLS is enabled, the {+driver-short+} automatically verifies the certificate
the server presents. When testing your code, you can disable certificate verification;
this is known as *insecure TLS.* 

When using insecure TLS, the only requirement is that the server present an X.509 
certificate. The driver will accept a certificate even if any of the following are true: 

- The hostname of the server and the subject name (or subject alternative name) 
  on the certificate don't match.
- The certificate is expired or not yet valid. 
- The certificate doesn't have a trusted root certificate in the chain. 
- The certificate purpose isn't valid for server identification.

You can disable certificate verification in two different ways: using a property on a 
``MongoClientSettings`` object or through a parameter in your connection string.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: MongoClientSettings
      :tabid: mongoclientsettings

>       To turn off automatic certificate verification with a ``MongoClientSettings`` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      To allow insecure TLS with a ``MongoClientSettings`` 
```

      object, set the ``AllowInsecureTls`` property to ``true``:

      .. code-block:: csharp
         :emphasize-lines: 4

         var settings = new MongoClientSettings 
         { 
            UseTls = true,
            AllowInsecureTls = true 
         };
         var client = new MongoClient(settings);
      
   .. tab:: Connection String
      :tabid: connectionstring

>       To turn off automatic certificate verification using a connection string, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      To allow insecure TLS using a connection string, 
```

      assign the connection string parameter ``tlsInsecure`` a value of ``true``:

      .. code-block:: csharp

         var mongoClient = new MongoClient("mongodb://user1:password1@sample.host:27017?tls=true&tlsInsecure=true");
      
.. warning::

   Always set this option to ``false`` in production. For security reasons, it's 
   important that the server certificate is properly validated.

.. _tls_configure-certificates:

Check Certificate Revocation
----------------------------

When an X.509 certificate should no longer be trusted--for example, if its private key
has been compromised--the certificate authority will revoke the certificate. 

By default, the {+driver-short+} doesn't check whether a server's certificate has been
revoked before it connects. You can enable revocation checking using either 

> ``MongoClientSettings`` or the connection string.

Reviewer: Question: Are there any common use cases where a user should be making sure they enable revocation checking? Or at least any that are worth calling out here?

Author: Waiting to hear back from the drivers team on this. If it's okay with you, I'd like to get this merged, and then we can come back to add in whatever we hear from them later.

The {+driver-short+} supports the following revocation-checking mechanisms differently on 
Windows, macOS, and Linux:

- :wikipedia:`Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) <Online_Certificate_Status_Protocol>`,
  a common mechanism for checking revocation 
- :wikipedia:`OCSP stapling <OCSP_stapling>`, a mechanism in which the server 
  includes a time-stamped OCSP response to the client along with the certificate
- :wikipedia:`Certificate revocation lists (CRLs), <Certificate_revocation_list>`,
  an alternative to OCSP

Windows
```````

On Windows, the {+driver-short+} supports OCSP, OCSP stapling, and CRLs without OCSP,
in both the .NET Framework and .NET Core. 

.. warning:: 
   
   On Windows, the {+driver-short+} will report a "hard fail" and cancel the TLS 
   handshake if the OCSP responder is unavailable. Other operating systems and drivers 
   will report a "soft fail" and continue connecting.

macOS
`````

On macOS, the {+driver-short+} supports OCSP and OCSP stapling. 

Beginning with .NET Core 2.0, the driver does **not** support CRLs without OCSP.

Linux
`````

On Linux, the {+driver-short+} supports OCSP, OCSP stapling, and CRLs without OCSP.

> 

Reviewer: Can we add a API Documentation section with the methods used on this page?

Author: There aren't any methods, but I added a link to `MongoClientSettings`

Reviewer: Ah I misread and was thinking the X509Certificate2 object used at the beginning was a method. This works!
